# Dynamic SLIC Superpixels Research
Research project that tests some potential ways to improve SLIC superpixel algorithm and ways to use SLIC superpixels to do reverse image searching. University of Washington Bothell CSS 587 (Advanced Topics in Computer Vision) Autumn 2025 quarter research project.

Collaborators: 
Chandler Calkins
Ketsia Mbaku
Everett-Alan Hood
Luke Erdy

# Final Deliverables
The ``main.cpp`` file in the ``SuperpixelImageSearch/src`` folder is the primary final deliverable of the project. It combines all parts of the project and shows how SLIC superpixels can be used to do reverse image searching. Some of the other folders also contain demonstrations of the other parts of the project. The sections below describe each demonstration and how to use it.

## SuperpixelImageSearch
By: Everett-Alan Hood

TODO: Everett needs to write about his demo here

## HashTable
By: Luke Erdy

TODO: Luke needs to write about his demo here

## ltridp
By: Ketsia Mbaku

TODO: Ketsia needs to write about her demo here

## SDP_HashTable
By: Luke Erdy

TODO: Luke needs to write about this demo here

## SuperDuperPixels
By: Chandler Calkins

The ``src/demo.cpp`` file in this folder demonstrates generating super-duper-pixels from superpixels generated by SLIC.
It works by combining adjacent superpixels into one superpixel if they have either similar enough average colors of the pixels contained in them, or similar enough color histograms of the pixels in them.
It determines if adjacent superpixels have similar enough colors by measuring the manhattan distance (for speed, rather than euclidian distance) between the average colors or the color histograms.
If the distance is below a threshold, they are combined.
Color histograms have to be normalized between 0 and 1 for this to work with them so percentages of pixel colors are measured rather than total sums of pixel colors.
If this is not done, superpixels that are similar in color but different in size would have large distances between them and not be considered similar.

To run this demo, follow these steps:
1. Place an image in the folder that's either of the format .jpg, .png, or .gif and uses RGB color space.
2. Rename that image to either ``inputs.jpg``, ``input.png``, or ``inpug.gif`` depending on the file format.
3. If you are running this on Visual Studio instead of another IDE, comment out line `72` in ``src/demo.cpp`` so the program can file your input image. The line of code you need to comment out is: ``chdir("../../");``.
4. Run the program.
5. Observe the regular superpixels generated for the image by SLIC.
6. Press space to move to the next image.
7. Observe the super-duper-pixels generated for the image using the average colors of superpixels with the parameters used in the demo.
8. Press space to  move to the next image.
9. Observe the super-duper-pixels generated for the image using color histograms of superpixels with the parameters used in the demo.
10. Press space again to finish.
11. Optionally, observe the outputted files of each of the images that were shown named ``superpixels.png``, ``superduperpixels_average.png``, and ``superduperpixels_histogram.png``.
